Winter 2019

Tues, Thur 6-8pm, HUNT 100

Office Hours: Online and By Appointment

Megan Otis

Web Application and Technology Studies

Seattle University

<otism@seattleu.edu> \| 206-296-6354

Catalog Description
-------------------

This course introduces students to common solutions for hosting Websites
and Web-based applications. Students will learn about how a server
works, experiment with local Web servers, and engage with the world of
Web hosting services in order to understand how those systems work in
the professional world. Students will also gain an understanding of
principles at work in cloud-based hosting solutions.

Course Outcomes
---------------

**Domain Management**

1.  Acquiring Domains

2.  Configuring Custom Domains

**Project Planning**

1.  Information Architecture

2.  Project Definition

3.  Project Planning

**Serving Web Content**

1.  Acquiring Hosting Services

2.  Basic Server Configuration

3.  Caching and Optimization

4.  Cloning Code Repositories

5.  Configuring Hosting Services

6.  Securing Web Apps

7.  Setting File and Directory Configurations

**Unix/Linux Usage**

1.  Common Command Line Utilities

2.  Completing All Requirements

3.  Navigating the Command Line

4.  Text Editors

5.  Transferring Files

Program Level Outcomes this Course Supports
-------------------------------------------

**System Operations**\
Learn how to publish websites online so they can be accessed by anyone
in the world, and how to leverage free software that can transform your
business or creative potential.

Assignments
-----------

Assignment instructions will be found on Canvas and in the
github.com/suwebdev account. Most weeks you will be working on a project
that is defined in a github repository. During the last three weeks of
the course you will work on your own project and there will be a week
for design, a week for build, and a week to share your work.

**Discussion Board**

You are required to post a response to the weekly Discussion prompt and
then respond to and/or incorporate feedback for other student responses.
Discussions take place in the Canvas application online. Discussions are
graded according to whether or not you make a post addressing the topic
requested in the assignment description. For the most part this is a
participatory grade, and all students are expected to make earnest
efforts to keep up with discussions and be responsive to fellow
students.

**Synchronous Check In**

Every two weeks you must complete a synchronous check in. This can be
done by attending lab or meet-up, a phone call, a face to face Zoom
meeting online, or a synchronous chat on Slack.

**Project Assignment**

Project assignments are work done to exercise some specific technical
skills and requirements. These assignments share many qualities that
make them similar, but each assignment also has unique requirements
designed to hone in on specific skills and abilities. These are listed
in the rubric for each assignment. The rubric will show you how the
assignment will be graded and what Learning Outcomes each assignment
relates to. Reading the rubric when you first look at the assignment is
a good way to gain a better understanding of the goals and purpose for
the assignment.

### Course Assignments and Weighted Values

  ------------ -----
  Projects     60%
  Discussion   20%
  Check In     20%
  ------------ -----

Policies
--------

The following policies govern this course and comply with Seattle
University policies.

### Support for Students With Disabilities

If you have, or think you may have, a disability (including an
"invisible disability" such as a learning disability, a chronic health
problem, or a mental health condition) that interferes with your
performance as a student in this class, you are encouraged to arrange
support services and/or accommodations through Disability Services staff
located in Loyola 100, (206) 296- 5740. Disability-based adjustments to
course expectations can be arranged only through this process.

### Academic Policies from the SU Registrar

Be sure that you understand the following university academic policies,
posted on the Registrar's website:

-   Academic Integrity

-   Academic Grading Grievance Policy

<https://www.seattleu.edu/redhawk-axis/academic-policies/>

### Incomplete Grades

If you are unable to complete course requirements because of extenuating
circumstances, please notify the instructor on or before the date the
assignment is due and provide relevant supporting documentation (e.g.
doctor's note, note from counselor).

An agreement to receive an Incomplete (I) grade may be negotiated if
your circumstances do not allow you to finish the course on time. The
Incomplete Removal Policy of the university is available on the Office
of the Registrar web site:
<https://www.seattleu.edu/redhawk-axis/academic-policies/>

### Assignment Deadlines and Extensions

Assignment deadlines are visible on both the [[Course
Syllabus]{.underline}](https://seattleu.instructure.com/courses/1583473/assignments/syllabus)
and the [[Assignments
list]{.underline}](https://seattleu.instructure.com/courses/1583477/assignments)
(as well as the individual Assignment pages themselves). You can always
find links to those two pages in the left sidebar of the course.

Due to the nature of the work, and the online structure of the course
materials, assignment deadlines will be automatically enforced.
Generally, there will be no extensions to the assignment deadlines,
primarily because falling behind on work in this course makes it
exponentially more difficult to complete the course successfully.

If you have an obligation or responsibility that makes any deadline on
the schedule an issue, please bring up this fact to your instructor as
soon as possible. Your instructor will work with you to accommodate your
other responsibilities, but any accommodation should be planned ahead of
time in collaboration with your instructor.

### Student Responsibilities for Learning

You are expected to budget **a minimum of 10 hours per week** for this
course. For the most part, 10 hours will be adequate time to complete
all of the requirements for each week. However, given the nature of the
material in these courses, it is likely that some weeks will be more
time-consuming than others due to complexity of concepts. Please
communicate openly with your instructor about how the course is going
and let your instructor know if you are regularly spending a lot more
time to complete work. Additional tutoring or other assistance may be
available depending on the nature of the issue. You are also encouraged
to review the calendar at the beginning of the quarter to flag any weeks
that seem to you to be especially full or challenging.

Required Tools/Software
-----------------------

In order to complete the work in this course, you will need to have a few services at your disposal:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Github

You will use your Github account to access project resources, to host
your working repositories, to publish your working web pages, and point
your base domain at your professional portfolio. Github is a service
that allows you to store and share your work with other developers. It
is a commonly used tool in web development, and an essential part of
these courses.

Digital Ocean

This is the service we will use throughout the quarter for hosting our
servers. If you sign up for the [Github Student Developer
Pack](https://education.github.com/pack) you will receive access to the
best developer tools all in one place, and specifically for Digital
Ocean you will receive a \$50 credit to use throughout the quarter.

Visual Studio Code

[Visual Studio Code (VS Code)](https://code.visualstudio.com/) is an
open source integrated development environment (IDE) used extensively
for the development of applications in many languages. It is
particularly friendly and useful for Front End Web Development. You need
to install on your local workstation or laptop and we have instructions
for both in
[FAQ](https://suwebdev.github.io/wats-lab-faq/second-question.html) and
[Video
Format](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLedjWp3a2wWx0zCB8ATulKP47NaDDRwiY).

### Slack

In order to provide more immediate help and assistance, you are invited
to join the [SU Web Development Slack
server](https://suwebdev.slack.com/), which provides you with persistent
team chat with other SU Webdev students. You can use this tool to reach
out directly to your instructor, communicate with fellow students,
facilitate private chats, share files/links/code snippets, and much
more. It\'s a very handy communication tool.

You can sign up to Slack with your \@seattleu.edu email address, but
please be aware that SU email sometimes eats emails from the Slack
servers. We have not been able to resolve this issue so far. If you sign
up with your \@seattleu.edu email and you do not receive the email
validation to complete your signup on Slack, then please send your
instructor your personal email address and request access. We will send
you an invite to your personal email address and you will be able to
access our Slack server.

### Lynda.com

Anyone taking courses in Seattle or King County (which includes anyone
enrolled at SU) can access Lynda.com courses through the [King County
Library
website](http://ezproxy.kcls.org/login?url=http://iplogin.lynda.com) or
the [Seattle Public Library
website](https://www.lynda.com/portal/sip?org=spl.org). Lynda.com
provides video courses covering many of the topics we will cover in this
quarter. You are encouraged to use Lynda.com resources to fill in your
knowledge or provide extra practice where needed. Engaging with
Lynda.com courses is entirely optional, but they can be a more reliable
resource for information than just looking up tutorials on Google or
Youtube.

To access Lynda.com courses, you must do so through the King County
Library System website (linked above). You will need a King County
Library Card, which you can apply to get on the King County Library
System website. [Click here to apply for your library
card](https://w3.kcls.org/get-a-library-card). Once you have your
library card, you can [use this link to view Lynda.com
courses](http://ezproxy.kcls.org/login?url=http://iplogin.lynda.com).

SU Web Dev Youtube Channel

The SU Web Development Certificate program maintains a [Youtube
channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCll_nlSRML4SRkKeUW50imA) that
hosts videos useful for our students. You will find assignment
summaries, technique demos, and all sorts of information useful to many
assignments. Most assignments link directly to specific videos that are
useful for that assignment, but it\'s recommended that you subscribe to
the Youtube channel for two reasons: 1) You will get updates about new
videos as soon as they are available. 2) You can more easily access the
videos through the Youtube apps on many different devices (your TV,
Roku, Xbox, PS4, etc.).

WATS Lab FAQ

WATS Lab Assignments require setup, configuration and processing. This
[FAQ](https://suwebdev.github.io/wats-lab-faq/) is a place to search for
and locate instructions in a \"How To\" format. Look here for
instructions on operations such as creating a gh-pages branch, setting
up a local environment and more.

Schedule
--------

  ------ ----------------------------------------------------------------
  Week   Topic and Assignments
  0      Topic: Course Information
         Discussion: Say Hello
  1      Topic: Domains and Hosting
         Project: Establish a Personal Domain
         Discussion: How did you choose your domain?
  2      Topic: Introduction to Unix
         Project: Unix Command-Line Basics
         Discussion: Favorite command
         Check-in
  3      Topic: Moving Files
         Project: Moving Files & Cloning Repositories
         Discussion: How do you imagine organization?
  4      Topic: Command Line Text Editors
         Project: Manipulating Text on the Server
         Discussion: Favorite Command Line Text Editor
         Check-in
  5      Topic: Serving Static Content
         Project: Serve a Static Website
         Discussion: The Static Website Trend
  6      Topic: Serving Dynamic Content
         Project: Simple Dynamic Page
         Discussion: What frameworks/webapps are you curious about?
         Check-in
  7      Topic: Installing Web Apps
         Project: Install a Web App
         Final Project: Planning Phase
         Discussion: Most Useful Documentation
  8      Topic: Customizing Web Apps
         Project: Final Project: Site Customization, Theming, and Setup
         Discussion: Where do you find themes?
         Check-in
  9      Topic: Caching and Security
         Project: Final Project: Caching, Optimization, and Security
         Discussion: Most effective speed or security enhancement?
  10     Topic: Final Project Sharing
         Project: Final Project: Completed Website Deployment
         Discussion: Final Project Sharing
         Check-in
  ------ ----------------------------------------------------------------
